hi this is part of a series of videos
about the paper concrete problems in AI
safety it should make some sense on its
own but I'd recommend checking out the
other videos first there's a link to the
playlist in the description so before we
talked about some problems that we might
have with AI systems like negative side
effects reward hacking or wire heading
we talked about good hearts law like how
if you use an exam as a metric students
will only learn what's on the exam and
then the exam will stop being a good
metric of how much the students know the
obvious question here is why not just
make an exam that properly tests
everything you care about and the
obvious answer is that would take way
too long or cost way too much we often
face a trade-off between how good of a
metric something is and thus how
resistant it is to things like good
hearts law and how expensive that metric
is in terms of time money or other
resources for our cleaning robot example
we could have a reward system that
involves a human following the robot
around at all times and giving it
positive or negative reward depending on
what the robot does this still isn't
safe with the powerful intelligence
because it still incentivizes the AI to
manipulate deceive or modify the human
but assuming we find a way around that
kind of thing it's a pretty good metric
the robots are not going to maximize its
reward by just putting its bucket on its
head or something like that but this
isn't practical if you're going to hire
someone to follow the robot around all
the time you may as well just hire
someone to do the cleaning that's why we
came up with metrics like use your
cameras to look around at the amount of
mess in the first place
they're cheap for the robot to do on its
own though there are some situations
where constant human supervision can be
used for example when developing
self-driving cars there's always a human
behind the wheel to stop the AI from
making serious mistakes and this makes
good sense
legally you've got to have a qualified
human in the car anyway for now but this
doesn't scale well paying humans to
supervise the millions of miles your
cars need to drive before the system is
fully trained is really expensive if
you're Google you can afford that but
it's still a huge cost and it makes a
lot of projects infeasible a human pilot
can safely oversee an autonomous drone
but not a cooperating swarm of hundreds
of them so we need to find ways for AI
systems to learn from humans without
needing a human to constantly supervise
everything they do we need to make
systems that can operate safely with
less supervision a slightly more
practical metric for
cleaning robot is to have the robot do a
day's cleaning and then have some humans
come around and do a full inspection of
the place at the end of the day checking
everything's clean checking everything's
in its place and giving the robot a
score out of ten for its reward if the
robot breaks something throws away
something important or just sits there
with its bucket on its head it will get
no reward so this still avoids a lot of
our negative side effects and reward
hacking problems as long as the
inspection is thorough enough and the AI
is weak enough that the robot can't
deceive or manipulate the humans but
there are problems with this too and a
big one is that in this type of
situation things like reinforcement
learning will be really slow or just not
possible see with a metric like keeping
track of how much mess there is with
your cameras the robot can try different
things and see what results in less mess
and thus learn how to clean but with a
daily inspection the robot is operating
all day doing thousands of different
things and then it gets a single reward
at the end of the day how is it meant to
figure out which of the things it did
were good and which were bad it would
need an extremely large number of days
before it could learn what it needs to
do to get good scores on the inspections
so figuring out how to make AI systems
that can learn using a sparse reward
signal would be useful for AI safety and
it's also a problem that's important for
AI in general because often a sparse
reward is all you've got
for example deep Minds dqn system can
learn to play lots of different Atari
games using just the pixels on the
screen as its sensor input and just the
score as its reward but it plays some
games better than others it's far better
than any human app break out but it
can't really play montezuma's revenge at
all now there are a lot of differences
between these games but one of the big
ones is that in breakout you get points
every time you hit a brick which happens
all the time
so the score and thus the reward is
constantly updating and giving you
feedback on how you're doing
while in Montezuma's Revenge you only
get points occasionally for things like
picking up keys or opening doors and
there are relatively long stretches
in-between where you have to do
complicated things without any score
updates to let you know if you're doing
the right thing even dying doesn't lose
you any points so it can be hard for
systems like this to learn that they
need to avoid that how do you make a
system that can learn even when it only
occasionally gets feedback on how it's
doing how do you make a system that you
can safely supervise without having to
constantly watch its every move how
you make supervision scale we'll talk
about some different approaches to that
in the next video
[Music]
I want to take a moment to thank my
excellent patreon supporters these
people in this video I'm especially
thanking Jourdan Medina a ramblin wreck
from Golden Tech who's been a patron of
the channel since July thank you so much
for your support Jordan and thank you to
all of my patrons and thank you all for
watching I'll see you next time